hi this is Helen Yancy and I want to
show you a few little things about pain
or 12 Corel Painter 12 that might be fun
for you to try I have a picture here
called yellow rose that's my original of
a photograph rubber Bros in my backyard
and I have Corel Painter 12 open and
what's different about this particular
workspace which is called what's new in
Corel Painter 12 that is this workspace
what's new that's the one you want for
this particular effort and I have
selected captured bristle in the
acrylics category you see its laid out a
little bit different than it was before
and capture bristle in the acrylics
category is the one I have chosen my
toolbox now is long and skinny down the
left hand side and I can make it double
like I did before but right now for a
real estate of my desktop I'm going to
leave it where it is the very first
thing I'm going to do is go to file
clone and the reason I use file clone
rather than quick clone is because I'm
going to use the whole image but I want
to be able to see both images rather
than have it underneath the tracing
paper so I'm going to make it bigger so
that you can see what I'm doing and I
want to be able to see the original so
that I can see what I'm doing as well so
I'll move these pallets over and let's
just show you how easy it is to make
something look like a painting I'm going
to choose as I said captured bristle and
for right now I am going to click on
this little icon here which is going to
put the image or the brush into clone
color that means whatever I paint is
going to be with the color of the
original and I want my brush to be a
little bit bigger so I hold down my
option command keys together or my alt
control keys and I can do this to make
my brush any
sighs I want I love that I think that's
amazing and with captured bristle then
using the color that is in the original
image I can paint the background or
paint the flower or do whatever I want
because that'll move the pixels around
and I'm not going to dwell a long time
on the background but let's move on the
flower itself and see how easily and how
nicely we can turn this into a painting
I'm following along with the rose but I
can see up here what I want to what I
want to reproduce I want to I want to be
able to see that image I want which I
can't do as easily with the tracing
people now there are times when the
tracing paper is wonderful because then
you only pick up that part of the image
that you want but can you see what's
happening I hope you can with just these
brush strokes very quickly and I'm
pushing out where it's where it becomes
dark I'm pushing out with my brush but I
know I can't get in too much trouble
because it's going to use the color that
is in the original image and with just a
few strokes I can make a painting very
quickly very easily I want to keep the
bud because that's pretty it's part of
the Rose I'm going to make my brush
smaller now see make it smaller so that
I can do these edges and keep those
edges of those of those petals as much
or as little as I desire to keep them I
can go over the whole thing with a big
brush if I wanted to and make it very
very photographic again but for this
that would defeat the purpose wouldn't
it so I'm going to just quickly paint
until I have a pretty little painting of
a rose let's go over the bud a little
bit and make brushstrokes nice and easy
those are just soft and painterly I made
my brush bigger again you saw that make
that petal come out make this one go
over that brush look already what we
have what we have is really pretty do I
need the hairs on the edge of that stem
of course not
would they be there in a real painting
of course not so very quickly very
easily with just one brush and using
clone color so that I you know if I want
to get creative with color then I don't
use clone color but right now I want to
pick up the color that's already there
and I might decide to keep that leaf and
I might not let's see what what what
will I decide I might decide to cut that
off too okay let's look at it big and
look at that in just a few minutes we
have created a painting from a
photograph just one brush we used one
brush and we use the clone tool the
clone option and we have a painting I
hope you'll try it I hope you'll enjoy
it and if you'd like to learn all about
Corel Painter come to one of my classes
there's going to be a class in the fall
in Maryland and there will be lots of
other classes it's Helen at Helen Yancey
studio calm thanks guys
you